8 September 2026
(Edited fulbright2021text then some more edits based on new phrasings of questions and one is now shorter -- see the second one for that.) 

Fulbright text


<><><><><><><>
Country selection (3000 characters):
	- Why have you selected this country (countries)?
	- What experiences have prepared you to undertake your project in this country (countries)?
	- Please describe your prior experiences in the host country/countries (if any).

UPDATED: Why is this country (or countries) the best match for your project?  
What experiences have prepared you to undertake your project in this country (countries)?  



POSTED shorter version (44 char remain):

My love of biology spurred my career in the sciences, but my path is guided by my love of other cultures and languages. This intersection is particularly clear for my research on winegrapes. I became fascinated by winegrapes 15 years ago, when a colleague told me they were the most diverse plant in terms of their seasonal development. The variety Pinot noir flowers 3-4 weeks before Cabernet-Sauvignon, and these two varieties represent just a fraction of the total diversity. This diversity, however, is still mostly in the ancestral home of winegrapes--Europe plants over 1000 different varieties, while the rest of the world plants under 300. Thus, working in Europe is central to the my research aims. 

France's government research collections protect and preserve thousands of varieties and wild grape species and Montpellier is a global leader in this research. They also help preserve the heritage and culture of viticulture in France, and they want to see it appreciated and protected. This aspect to me requires the immersion level of a Fulbright. To support this aim, I spent two months living with a host family and studying French at the Alliance Francaise in 2011. I was an NSF postdoc at the time and so spent several afternoons each week in the médiathèque writing papers, but I filled my days otherwise with the language and the culture. I bought a bicycle and traveled around town and the region, observing, interacting and engaging. Certainly I had days I was horribly lost or confused by the culture, but this type of frustration was not new to me and I knew I could push through it for great gains.

Since then I have visited France for a couple weeks most years to meet with colleagues in Bordeaux, Avignon, Montpellier and Sète. This constant visiting has helped develop some collaborations, but I believe requires greater immersion to make major research leaps. As such I am applying for a Fulbright to spend 6 months in France.

ANSWER: 
My love of biology spurred my career in the sciences, but my path is guided by my love of other cultures and languages. This intersection is particularly clear for my research on winegrapes. 

I became fascinated by winegrapes 15 years ago, when a colleague told me they were the most diverse plant in terms of their seasonal development. The variety Pinot noir generally flowers 3-4 weeks before Cabernet-Sauvignon, and these two varieties represent just a fraction of the total diversity grown on earth. This diversity, however, is still mostly in the ancestral home of winegrapes---Europe plants over 1000 different varieties of winegrapes, while the rest of the world plants under 300 varieties. Thus, working in Europe is central to the my research aims. 

Years ago, when I wanted to find out the scope of winegrape seasonal development diversity I needed to meet experts on the topic in France. I also wanted to be sensitive to their culture. France's government research collections protect and preserve thousands of varieties and wild grape species. They also help preserve the heritage and culture of viticulture in France, and they want to see it appreciated and protected. 

Before meeting any French winegrape researchers I spent two months living with a host family and studying French at the Alliance Francaise in 2011. I was an NSF postdoc at the time and so spent several afternoons each week in the médiathèque writing papers, but I filled my days otherwise with the language and the culture. I bought a bicycle and traveled around town and the region, observing, interacting and engaging. Certainly I had days I was horribly lost or confused by the culture, but this type of frustration was not new to me and I knew I could push through it for great gains. Not surprisingly, I wrote my most cited paper while in France (Wolkovich et al. 2012, Nature) and I credit that in part to the benefit of doing research alongside learning a new language and culture. 

In October 2011, before returning to the US, I traveled to Bordeaux to meet Dr. Kees van Leeuwen, an expert in winegrapes and climate change. He had never met or heard of me, but picked me up the train station in Libourne and answered all my questions. At the end, he encouraged my research interests in winegrape diversity, introduced to me to colleagues in Bordeaux, Avignon and Montpellier (I also intend to meet to engage with colleagues in Bordeaux and Avignon, but I plan to stay in Montpellier, where the other researchers are concentrated). 

Since then I have visited France for a couple weeks most years to meet with colleagues in Bordeaux, Avignon, Montpellier and Sète. This constant visiting has helped develop some collaborations, but I believe requires greater immersion to make major research leaps. As such I am applying for a Fulbright to spend 6 months in France.


<><><><><><><>
Why Fulbright? (1500 characters)
	- What is the trajectory you have followed, and what are your plans for the future?
	- How does this Fulbright award fit into your career path and future goals?
	- This is separate from the facts presented elsewhere in the application and may address your personal history, background, development and the opportunities to which you have, or have not been exposed.

ANSWER: NEEDS To be SHORTER!
And address UPDATED: Why are you applying for this Fulbright award, and why now? How does this Fulbright award fit into your career path and future goals?

For over 20 years my research has focused on seasonal development, also known as phenology---the timing of recurring life history events. Phenology is the most reported biological impact of climate change, with plants and animals shifting days and weeks earlier over recent decades with warming. These shifts can have major impacts on natural and managed systems. For crops it can mean fruit that ripens too soon, or is damaged by high temperatures during a certain developmental stage (e.g., flowering). 

My research has focused on the question of understanding these impacts and finding ways to mitigate their negative consequences. In winegrapes, I have focused on understanding global patterns of winegrape diversity and better understanding how different varieties respond to warming. My long-term aim is to provide robust predictions for wild and agricultural plant communities, but this requires also understanding how best to design this work so it is useful. 

By working for 6 months in Montpellier, I will be fully immersed in a collaborative environment that has not only the data and expertise to support my project--France houses the world's greatest collection of winegrapes, and my collaborators are experts in this diversity--but also the connections to make sure the work is useful. My proposed hosts have extensive expertise in viticulture, and extensive connections across Montpellier and beyond to make sure the work is designed to be rapidly useful, and widely disseminated.




<><><><><><><>
Cultural preparation (2000 characters)
    	- What challenges do you expect to face as a foreign national in the host country?
    	- How will you adapt, address, or manage them?
    	- Provide examples of your ability to be adaptable, flexible, culturally sensitive, collegial, and how you may serve as a cultural ambassador for the U.S. Please address your familiarity with the host culture, and any other global experiences that prepare you to adjust successfully to life in the host country.


UPDATED: The Fulbright Program is designed to expand and strengthen relationships between the people of the United States and citizens of other nations and to promote international understanding and cooperation. During their awards, Fulbrighters will meet, engage with, and learn from the people of the host country. 
Address your familiarity with the host culture, and any other global experiences that prepare you to adjust successfully to life in the host country, including your prior experiences in the host country/countries (if any).
Explain how you will adapt to working and living in the host country.
How does your experience prepare you to represent the United States as a cultural ambassador? Provide specific examples.
How do you plan to share your culture and values in your host community and learn from others?
Please address language proficiency in the Language Skills section of the application (Self-Evaluation).


ANSWER:
I grew up in a small rural town in New Hampshire, which I moved to when I was six. I was raised almost entirely by my mother who filled our home with books that were full of the words, images, joys and challenges of other countries, cultures, and perspectives. Before New Hampshire, my family had lived outside of Boston. Because of this, many people in our town considered us outsiders, especially compared to those who had lived there for generations, but my world at home helped me see the gifts of our new town, how to adapt to it, and some of its challenges. 

These struggles growing up prepared me in part for the challenges of adapting to new cultures: the openness to embrace differences, to work through frustrations and see the benefits. I built on these skills over my career and am sure I will leverage them, while developing new approaches if selected for this Fulbright. 

In college I majored in biology, but I have always took extensive classes in Spanish and Latin American literature, studying abroad in Oaxaca, Mexico where I became fluent in Spanish, and minored in Russian--a new language to me, but one that fascinated me, and a one I spoke quite well when I finished college. In my last year of college, I spent a month at Lake Baikal and helped translate for biologists on the trip. During my PhD I taught abroad--twice--on the foreign studies program centered in Costa Rica. Since 2019 (with a Covid interruption) I have taught biology for several weeks in Namibia. 

I expect my biggest challenge in France will be the language. French will be the main language of almost everyone around me and I do not want my colleagues to adapt for me. As such, I have already spent one month this year in immersion classes and am taking regular lessons now. While I currently speak enough French to join coffee hours, I know how much further my collaborations will go when I am fluent enough to speak French with my colleagues all day. 
